---
layout: post
title: My 2011 Quest
tags: [random]
author_name: Tanner Burson
author_uri: http://twitter.com/tannerburson
published: false
---

## Intro
I got a PDA (A Sharp Zaurus, running Linux to be exact) in 2001. By 2003, I was on my third PDA, my cell-phone could act as a bluetooth modem, and it had a camera. Skip forward a few years, and there's Palm's, Blackberry's, and Android devices. In 10 years I've gone through a dozen PDAs and cell-phones, each with more features and capabilities than the last. But in 2011, I'm moving backwards, I traded my Android phone in for a $20 nearly-disposable flip phone.

This wasn't a spur of the moment decision, I've been plotting, and thinking, and planning this for months. I started telling folks in December that I would ditch my smartphone in 2011. They almost uniformly had the same response, disbelief. How was I going to go back to not having internet access with me all the time. I wouldn't have automatic syncing with my google calendar, or contacts. No email, no web sites, no camera, nothing, just phone calls and sms. 

## Why?
That's the question everyone wants to know. Why on earth would I give up all the benefits of a smartphone? I don't know. Part of me says this is crazy, stupid, and I'll be clamoring for a new phone within a month. The other part of me says this is a valid personal study, and might provide worthwhile insight. I'm listening to the latter part, and trying to answer two questions in the process:

1.  Does a smart phone actually make my life easier or better in some way?
2.  How do my daily routines, and general habits change when I don't have constant hand-held access to the internet?

I'm hoping that at bare minimum this experience provides me with better knowledge about what features I actually need in a smartphone, so my next purchase can be more about function than form.

## How's it going?
Well I'm not even a week into my little experiment, and I can tell you that I'm already a bit twitchy everytime I open my email. Did i get 5 emails or 500 since I last checked? Did I miss an email from the boss? There is some noticable apprehension when I open my email. 

I've also become hyper-aware of other people using smartphones. Sitting at a restaurant I notice an entire table sitting, playing with iPhones, and completely ignoring each other. I hope I wasn't one of those oblivious people when I was using mine!
